add blog for how to speed up pod startup from kubelet side (#40156)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2023-04-02-how-to-speed-up-pod-startup-from-kubelet-side.md

---
layout: blog

> title: "How to speed up pod startup from kubelet side? "

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "How to speed up pod startup on a Node."
```

I don't think we need a question mark in a title. Also maybe use Node as a general term.

If this is a feature blog for 1.27, we can title it "Recent developments in kubelet to speed up Pod startup." This will be more accurate as we are not providing other guidances like "minimize the number of config maps Pod uses" or "Do not use too many layers in your image"

date: 2023-04-02T16:00:00+0000
slug: speed-up-pod-startup
---

> **Author**: Paco Xu(DaoCloud), Sergey Kanzhelev, Ruiwen Zhao(Google)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Author**: Paco Xu(DaoCloud), Sergey Kanzhelev (Google), Ruiwen Zhao(Google)
```

> How can pod start-up time be accelerated on nodes in large clusters? This is a common issue that cluster administrators may face.

Reviewer 2: nit: this issue is not specific to *large* clusters, right? Even for an one-node cluster, we can use the techniques in this blog to speed up pod startups.

Reviewer 2: uh I see. The QPS setting is mostly for large clusters.

Author: Most likely, you will meet the pod start-up thing in a large node or a large cluster.

> This blog post focuses on methods to speed up pod start-up from the kubelet side. It does not involve the creation time of pods by controller-manager through kube-apiserver, nor does it include scheduling time for pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This blog post focuses on methods to speed up pod start-up from the kubelet side. It does not involve the creation time of pods by controller-manager through kube-apiserver, nor does it include scheduling time for pods or webhooks executed on it.
```

webhooks is often forgotten and those may delay Pod creation significantly.

### Maximum parallel image pulls will help secure your node from overloading on image pulling

We are introducing a new feature in kubelet that sets a limit on the number of parallel image pulls at the node level. This limit restricts the maximum number of images that can be pulled simultaneously. If there is an image pull request beyond this limit, it will be blocked until one of the ongoing image pulls finishes. Before enabling this feature, please ensure that your container runtime's image service can handle parallel image pulls effectively.

To limit the number of simultaneous image pulls, you can configure the `maxParallelImagePulls` field in kubelet. By setting `maxParallelImagePulls` to a value of _n_, only _n_ images will be pulled concurrently. Any additional image pulls beyond this limit will wait until at least one ongoing pull is complete.

More detials can be found in the KEP <https://kep.k8s.io/3673>.

## bump default API QPS limits for Kubelet

> To improve pod startup in scenarios with multiple pods on a node, particularly sudden scaling situations, it is necessary for Kubelet to synchronize the pod status and prepare configmaps, secrets or volumes. This requires a large bandwidth to access kube-apiserver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To improve pod startup in scenarios with multiple pods on a node, particularly sudden scaling situations, it is necessary for Kubelet to synchronize the pod status and prepare configmaps, secrets, or volumes. This requires a large bandwidth to access kube-apiserver.
```

oxford comma

In versions prior to v1.27, the default `kubeAPIQPS` was 5 and `kubeAPIBurst` was 10. However, Kubelet has increased these defaults to 50 and 100 respectively for better performance during pod startup. It's worth noting that this isn't the only reason why we've bumped up the API QPS limits for Kubelet.

1. It has a potential to be hugely throttled now (default QPS = 5)
2. In large clusters they can generate significant load anyway as there are a lot of them
3. They have a dedicated PriorityLevel and FlowSchema that we can easily control

> In old days, we always encounter `volume mount timeout` on kubelet in node with more than 50 pods during pod start up. We suggest our customers to bump 3 or 4 times of kube api QPS and especially with customers that is using bare-metal(physical machines).

Reviewer 2: "3 or 4 times" compared to the old default 5, or the new default 50? Should we make it more clear here?

More detials can be found in the KEP <https://kep.k8s.io/1040> and <https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/116121>.

## Evented PLEG will enhance the scalability of kubelet

> `Evented PLEG` is set to be in beta for v1.27, enabled by default. It aids pod startup in large clusters by reducing unnecessary work during inactivity through replacing periodic polling. The current `Generic PLEG` incurs non-negligible overhead due to frequent container status polling, which worsens with Kubelet's parallelism, leading to poor performance and reliability issues. For these reasons, it is recommended that we use Evented PLGE instead. Further details can be found in the KEP <https://kep.k8s.io/3386>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Evented PLEG` is set to be in beta for v1.27, disabled by default (needs to be enabled explicitly). It aids pod startup in large clusters by reducing unnecessary work during inactivity through replacing periodic polling. The current `Generic PLEG` incurs non-negligible overhead due to frequent container status polling, which worsens with Kubelet's parallelism, leading to poor performance and reliability issues. For these reasons, it is recommended that we use Evented PLGE instead. Further details can be found in the KEP <https://kep.k8s.io/3386>.
```

> `Evented PLEG` is set to be in beta for v1.27, enabled by default. It aids pod startup in large clusters by reducing unnecessary work during inactivity through replacing periodic polling. The current `Generic PLEG` incurs non-negligible overhead due to frequent container status polling, which worsens with Kubelet's parallelism, leading to poor performance and reliability issues. For these reasons, it is recommended that we use Evented PLGE instead. Further details can be found in the KEP <https://kep.k8s.io/3386>.

Reviewer 2: IIUC, Evented PLEG helps reduce startup latency indirectly, by reducing unnecessary works and therefore saving node resources. Cluster size is irrelevant here, right?

Author: Yes, I removed the `large clusters` mentioned here.
